display{
    inline-block,
    block;
    inline,
    none
    
}

float{
    left,
    right,
    both
}

----------------------------Web design------------------------------
Principles of the Web design
1. Color Theory
2. Typography
3. User Interface design
4. User Experience design

-----------Color Theory--------------
Moods of the color power

Red - flame, love, energy, intensity (example - car, feeling energetic ro intensity of the car)

Yellow - sun, joy, intellect, attention (example - lady in Yellow on a beach, yellow always 
attracts attention, creating the logo or headline is good choice to have yellow)

Green - leaf, freshness, safety, growth (grocery companies)

Blue - water, stability, trust, serenity(to make the customers feeling trust you-payPal, CriptoComponies, banks, 
phsyhologies say that by wearing blue T-shirt for interview is much more trustble for interviewers rather that 
green or other colors.)

Purple - Royalty, Wealth, Femininity

Choosing the colors think what message should your color bring to the customers.

You may use 2 or 3 colors in your web site and combining those colors, you should approach from the 
scientific part of color theory. 
for example 
- to take 2 colors right to each other on the color wheel and this way is called Analogous color palette. So, this color pallet can be rally good for navigation bars and the body of your website, logo and background.
- if you really want your design to pop, you're better of taking two colors from opposite ends of the color wheel creating what's called Complementary Color palette or a Clashing palette. It really brings out each of the colors. (for instance in the supermarket meat is marked with the green paper to attract the attention to the meat, to pop up the meat a lot more and gives you this idea of freshness because of the green). But, what we shouldn't do with clashing colors or complementary colors is to try to style text and text background with it because it actually looks very jarring and you can feel your eyes sort of getting a little bit fuzzy. We need to use this combination in
cases when we wont things to stand our together. 
A good Idea to use Adobe Color or Colorhunt.co websites to choose the colors. 


----------------Typography---------------------------------------

Serif family where they have these little feet at the end of their central beams. And the reason why they have these old feet is because the serif typeface were inspired by the marble carvings of days of yore. it looks like historical font. This font making your design look more serious, more authoritative and also a little bit older as well. design for letterhead for a legal company or a magazine for architectural design. But, we can actually tell how old a type face would look by looking at the difference between the thickest and the thinnest parts of each 
letter.  So compare the Old Style 'o' versus the modern 'o'. The difference between the thickest part of the letter and the thinnest part gets more and more exaggerated as you get towards a more modern font. So, if you want something that looks authoritative but modern then maybe you want to go for a modern serif typeface like Didot. 
But, if you want it to come across as a little bit older, a little bit more aged maybe you have a winery, maybe you want to go for an Old Style serif instead. Now just sa different colors have different moods and emotions, different fonts also convey a different message to a user depending of which one you choose. 

-Different fonts have different moods.
Serif - Traditional(MinionPro), Stable(Trajan), Respectable(Baskerville)
Sans-Serif - Sensible(Helvetica), Simple(Avenir), Straightforward(Din)
Script - Personal(Freestyle Script), Creative(Adios Script Pro), Elegant(Snell Raundhand)
Display - Friendly(Vag Rounded), Loud(Gin), Amusing(Thirsty Rough)
Modern - Stylish(Sackers Gothic), Chic(Gotham), Smart(Futura)

--------Whole text for Font Section--------------------------
All right.

The next topic I want to talk about is typography.

Now, I know a lot of students always say to me,

"But why do I need to learn about typography?

I just open up Word, click the dropdown,

find Times New Roman,

my favorite font,

and then just put that on everything. It's done, right?"

Well let's think about this.

Now, let's say it's Valentine's Day and you decide that you want to write a letter to your beloved Valentine

and you change the font to something cursive like this.

"You'll always be mine."

I don't know if she or he will be

but you have a good chance.

Now let's say that you chose the wrong font.

That's a bit of a problem.

Not only do I not think your Valentine is going to take very kindly to this,

you might also have the police on your back which is a bit of a problem.

So fonts really do matter and it's important to consider not only their mood but also how to combine

different fonts,

and it's a really, really easy way to make your designs look very professional and really slick. Out of

all of the fonts in the world,

there's pretty much two large families that you should really know about.

One is the Serif family where they have these little feet at the end of their central beams.

And the reason why they have these old feet is because the serif typeface were inspired by the marble

carvings of days of yore.

So if you next go out and you take a look at the buildings around you especially if you're in a historical

area, take a look at places where they've carved into stone or marble and you'll notice that they also

have these little feet at the end of the central beams.

So why is that?

I don't know how many of you carved marble in your spare time but if you did you would know that once

you chisel has gone into the Rock and you need to exit your engraving it's actually not possible to

create 90 degree angles when you're carving into rock.

So this is where the serif typeface gets their inspiration from.

And this is also the reason why when you're choosing a serif typeface you're making your design look

more serious, more authoritative and also a little bit older as well.

So it's really good if you're designing something like a letterhead for a legal company or a magazine

for architectural design.

But when we take a look at the big family of serif typefaces

they're actually further subdivided into smaller sub-families like Old style, Transitional, Modern and

Slab-Serif.

Now the really interesting thing is you can actually tell how old a typeface would look by looking at

the difference between the thickest and the thinnest parts of each letter.

So compare the Old Style 'o' versus the Transitional

'o' versus the modern

'o'. And look at how that difference between the thickest part of the letter and the thinnest part gets

more and more exaggerated as you get towards a more modern font.

So if you want something that looks authoritative but modern then maybe you want to go for a modern

serif typeface like Didot. But if you want it to come across as a little bit older, a little bit more aged

maybe you have a winery, maybe you want to go for an Old Style serif instead.

Now just as different colors have different moods and emotions, different fonts also have different moods

and they also convey a different message to a user depending on which one you choose.

So the serif family generally come across as traditional, stable, respectable, authoritative,

these are the words that get thrown around by designers when they're thinking about the serif typeface.

So for example, the next time you go to a magazine rack pick up the Vogue magazine.

Take a look at their title and see how it's a modern serif typeface.

It's got hugely exaggerated difference between the thick and thin parts of the lettering and it looks

authoritative and it knows what it is talking about.

Now on the other hand, if we think about the Sans-Serifs, they're kind of a different family, because instead

of having the serifs or the little feet at the end the central beams, they have perfect right angles.

And it's this right angle that makes the sans-serif family look so much more friendly, more approachable,

more novel and more contemporary.

So for example, you will tend to get words like sensible, simple, straightforward. And this is why a lot

of startups love using the sans-serif typeface in their websites.

For example, a Humanist typeface which is a sub-family of the sans-serif. It's something that is known

as a highly readable typeface. And in fact, even within the serifs and the sans-serifs, you will tend to

see designers going for the sans-serifs if they want to write body text which needs to be more legible

and more readable.

Now within this sub family, there's even differences in terms of legibility and readability.

So how easy are the words to read and how pleasant is it to read the letters.

There was a really interesting study done by MIT a few years back where they took two groups of users,

one they put them into a car which had a dashboard made of a Humanist typeface and the other car had

a dashboard which had a Grotesque sans-serif typeface. And what they did is they tracked the pupils of

the people who were driving the cars and they tested how long each driver needed to look down at the

dashboard before they got enough information from the speedometer or the odometer and before they could

come back and look at the road again. And really surprisingly they found that just by changing the font

from a Grotesque sans-serif to a Humanist sans-serif, they could save the drivers somewhere around

30 to 40 percent of the time that's required to understand the information.

So imagine that car is on a freeway that's driving at 60 miles, 100 miles an hour.

That difference in the amount of time the user needs to look down at the dashboard could be the difference

between life and death.

And as designers, we rarely get to make that kind of difference in the world, right?

So knowing that the Humanist typeface, all of the fonts that belong in that category like Gill Sans,

Tahoma, Verdana, these are highly readable and highly legible fonts which you can use in the body types

for example of your sales pitch.

Now, even though we're not saving lives with our sales pitches,

if you manage to get the user to read through more of your sales copy then they're probably going to

be more convinced and more likely to buy your product

right?

So readability and legibility when you're choosing fonts is incredibly important. And the things that

you're looking for in the letters when you're looking for legibility are open shapes and a lot of space

between each of the letters and also the forms look unambiguous so they look different

for example here the 'g' and the 9 actually look different on the second line. And finally, varying proportions.

So having an 'O' that's very wide and a '0' that's a bit more narrow so you can actually tell the difference

between the two.

Now while we've talked about using fonts, it's often that you see people go a bit overboard where they

choose 10 fonts in the same design and that makes your design look very cluttered and very unprofessional.

I recommend actually sticking to just two fonts in one design.

So if you're making a poster keeping that to two fonts. If you're making a section of your website keeping

then again to two fonts. It just looks a lot cleaner and a lot tighter.

And when you're combining these two different fonts you want to try to go for similar moods. So find

fonts that have a similar mood to each other and also a similar time era.

You don't want something that looks ultramodern with something that looks like it's from the days of

yore combined together, it looks a little bit weird.

Now the things you want to contrast are the Serif-ness.

So for example you on the heading to be a serif and the body to be a sans-serif or the opposite way

round. It just creates more interest in your design.

And similarly, you can also create interest by just changing up the weights between the heading and the

body. So making the heading really really bold or even using a black typeface and making the body text

using something like thin or regular or light. These different weights can create contrast in your design.

Now if you don't remember anything from this talk on typefaces, I just want you to look at these six

fonts and try to wipe them from your memory because it is very very difficult to make these designs

look good, unless I guess, if you're running a lemonade stand.

But if you want to look professional, if you want to look "designed", try to use one of the other fonts that

we've talked about and try to ignore these ones which are difficult to read and have moods that are

difficult to fit in in a professional setting.

The next time you're designing a website think about what typefaces you're going to choose.

Think about what you're trying to convey with those typefaces and then pick a font from the sans-serif

or the serif family and maybe try to combine them,

so you have a heading that's a sans-serif and a body that's a serif and try to create contrast in your

designs.

So keep this in mind and hopefully they'll make your designs a lot more interesting and a lot more professional.

